docs(contributing): add podling status report guide (#2996)
apache/incubator-opendal: website/docs/contributing/podling-report.md

---
title: Podling Status Reports
sidebar_position: 4
---

Podling Status Report provides key updates on your podling's status and helps the ASF Board monitor and support the incubating projects. This guide provides step-by-step instructions on how to prepare and submit Podling Status Report effectively.

### Frequency of Reporting

New podlings are required to submit reports monthly for the first three months. After this period, the reporting frequency changes to quarterly. 

> **The current reporting frequency for OpenDAL is once per quarter.** Stay attentive to the general email list for the Incubator, where due dates for these reports are announced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The current reporting frequency for OpenDAL is once per quarter.** Stay attentive to general@incubator.apache.org ([subscribe](mailto:general-subscribe@incubator.apache.org)), where due dates for these reports are announced.
```

### Report Preparation

> It's recommended to discuss the report on the dev list, inviting all members to contribute. Here are the critical points your report should address:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's recommended to discuss the report on dev@opendal.apache.org ([subscribe](mailto:dev-subscribe@opendal.apache.org)), inviting all members to contribute. Here are the critical points your report should address:
```

- Any concerns that require the attention of the Incubator PMC or ASF Board.
- Legal, infrastructure, cross-project, or personal issues that need addressing.
- Achievements (releases, milestones, etc.) since the last report.
- The activity and helpfulness of mentors.
- Any other significant points or thoughts you think should be included.

You can discuss the issues based on the template or refer to [previous reports](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/INCUBATOR/August2023#opendal) for preparation.

### Report Writing and Submission

Podling Status Report has its own format. Please fill it out based on your assessment of the project's incubation status and the materials collected during the preparation phase. We should use the existing format and don’t change the subject headers. 

:::note

Note that IPMC update the template from time to time, so be sure to use the one IPMC provide and not a previous report.

:::

### Mentor Sign-off

Each Podling Status Report must be signed off by a mentor. **Without a mentor's sign-off, the IPMC will not accept the report**, and the podling will need to submit a new report the following month.

> After submitting the report, you can send a email to  `dev@opendal.apache.org` to remind our mentors and the community to review the report and provide feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After submitting the report, you can send a email to dev@opendal.apache.org to remind our mentors and the community to review the report and provide feedback.
```

```

> OpenDAL's Podling Report of <Month><Year>

Reviewer 2: It's better to add a prefix for title, how about `[ANNOUNCE]`?
